Currently I am focused on the single unit spike train analysis. 

My next step would be multiple single unit spike trains and lfp data.

I am adding "MyBrain" as a GUI to the OpenBrain, for now as wxPython has problems with Snow Leopard and Python 64bit I am using Tkinter but my plan is to switch to wxPython as it would give a lot more flexibility.

Basically my plan for MyBrain! is to make an Experiment Explorer in which user can see all the parameters in an experiment and select trials based on the conditions set on the parameters and then can do analysis or viualization on the selection or grouping.
 
So I need a list of all the experiments with a filtering mechanism that let's me select experiments based on their properties (Moneky, Experiment Type [ABD, OT, ...], Neuron, ) AND allows manual selection by a check box or just highlighting mechanism. In addition to that I'd be needing a mechanism with which I can select trials in the experiments I selected based on their properties, so I need to display a list of properties shared between trials as well as the expeirment name and type (also as properties). Then I need a mechanism to add trial groups that let the user create trial groups that 

I need to start thinking about two things:
1- a database engine - for this I may study the postgresql user defined datatype thing that they have to see if I can fit into that.
a. a question to be asked here is that, is a relational database server meet the requirements for a neural database server? 
It seems so! As I have been able to design a object model for the OpenBrain it is theoretically implementable in a relational database. The problem would be that it is not the most efficient way of handeling spiking data both in terms of disk space and database performance.
But I need to give it a try.
Another problem with relational databases is that there is not a fixed set of properties and experiment would have.
maybe for now the best way to work around this is to use scipy's save mechanism to save python objects to disk.



2- api
a. an api or other form of interface with MATLAB as many people are still using MATLAB as their tool of choice for neural data analysis.
b. a web based api

 
OK Now that I watched Wolfram talking at TED (I am at TEDActive 2010 now) I really want to explor the computaional space of a piece of brain or at least all possible states of a piece of brain. 
So I need to be able to take a rather sizeable (start small!) chunck of the brain and search and visualize the possible states it can be in! 

What does it exactly mean? a piece of brain (for matters of this discussion) is just a bunch of neurons that at any given moment can be spiking or not (or we might take it to the next level and say can be resting at a resting potential or being "Spiking" or being restored so it is like 3 states).

So we need a clock that ticks away and at each tick we need to evaluate the state of all the neurons in our chunk of the brain.

Then we have connections between these neurons which are basically synaptic weights (let's keep it at this level for now) and we have some external inputs which are some potentials that can be added to the current membrane potential.

So we need Neurons, Synapses, inputs, 

for now let's focus on stable structures (no synaptic weight change after the initialization)


